# header

# Chapter 1

- need to grow people, they are basically never fitting a position and you have to figure out who to grow
- only about a third of personnel decisions are really great, another third are ok and the last third is bad. Executives never blame the person not performing, they take responsibility for putting that person in this position.
- In the knowledge worker world everybody is an executive. That means not only people managers but individual contributors because everybody has to make decisions of some sort.
- It's hard to measure knowledge work, its not like you output a certain number of shoes produced as in a factory.


# Chapter 2: Know Thy Time

The chapter is all about time management. He lists common problems that take up time and lists common strategies for creating blocks of time for the executive. He emphasizes that the executive needs blocks of time to make decisions and for deep thinking. He also makes a case for tracking time and checking in regular intervals how time use could be optimized.

Causes for lack of time can be
- overstaffing
- too many meetings

Ways to adjacent blocks of time are:
- working from home early in the morning before the day starts
- working from home one day a week to minimize interruptions
- blocking mornings for focus work

In my company we have "meeting-free wednesdays" and I know that some companies have dedicated days of the week which are for meetings, i.e. a Monday full of meetings to synchronize information in the team and then only ad-hoc meetings for the rest of the week.

# Chapter 3: What can I contribute?

When asking executives what they do many answer that they direct an organization or have hundreds of reports. They should be focused on how they're delivering value instead, e.g. "I make sure the accounting department has all the information it needs to produce the quarterly reports". That value is often generated by looking outside the organization, a point Drucker makes repeatedly is that executives need to cross the organization boundary and look outside to create value.

People that have good human relations are not born with "people skills", instead they focus on delivering value to the counterpart and collaborating with the counterpart on creating value for the organization. Most value is delivered through work with people that do not report to oneself but are on a lateral reporting level.

Drucker says organizations have three focus areas of results, fostering a mission and growing talent. Obviously this is a simplification, I am not quite sure myself of the interpretation of the middle goal as the mission in itself maybe should not be a focus, though it does make more sense the longer I think about it.
